README.md, before:

# Active Learning Workflow Demo

This is a basic Dash application to demonstrate the active learning workflow. 
To build intuition for why active learning works, please see [this prototype](https://activelearner.fastforwardlabs.com/).

## What is Active Learning

Active learning is an iterative process, and relies on human input to build up a
smartly labeled dataset. The process typically looks like this:

* Begin with a small set of labeled data (that is all we have)
* Train a model 
* Use the trained model to run inference on a much larger pool of unlabeled data 
available to us
* Use a selection strategy to pick out points that are difficult for the machine
* Request labels from human
* Add these back into the labeled datapool
* Repeat the training process and iterate


## Data

We use MNIST to illustrate the workflow but only use the 10k testing dataset as
our entire dataset. We first set aside 2,000 datapoints for testing. Out of the
remaining 8,000 datapoints, we allow user to select 100, 500 or 1,000 are labeled 
examples while the rest are unlabeled. The user can then provide labels to 10 
shortlisted examples (based on selection strategy) from the remaining training examples.

## How to use

There are two ways to start the application.

### As a normal python session

Just type 
  ```python
  python app_new.py
  ```

### Within CDSW

This can be set up as an application.

- First, specify the port in app_new.py. 

  ```python
  app.run_server(port=os.getenv("CDSW_APP_PORT"))
  ```

- Second, set the Subdomain in CDSW's Applications tab.

- Third, enter app.py in the Script field in CDSW's Applications tab.

- Fourth, start the application within CDSW.

- Finally, access demo at Subdomain.ffl-4.cdsw.eng.cloudera.com

### To Do
- Why the train error > validation error - done, fixed
- Add refresh graphs button instead of flickering? - fixed
- What's wrong with the epoch updates now?
- Reset button click should restore the graphs as well
- Review that AL is adding value to the process
- The label this image option should disappear after training
- any others

Commit message:

fixed epoch updates, resetting graphs, review AL

README.md, after:

# Active Learning Workflow Demo

This is a basic Dash application to demonstrate the active learning workflow. 
To build intuition for why active learning works, please see [this prototype](https://activelearner.fastforwardlabs.com/).

## What is Active Learning

Active learning is an iterative process, and relies on human input to build up a
smartly labeled dataset. The process typically looks like this:

* Begin with a small set of labeled data (that is all we have)
* Train a model 
* Use the trained model to run inference on a much larger pool of unlabeled data 
available to us
* Use a selection strategy to pick out points that are difficult for the machine
* Request labels from human
* Add these back into the labeled datapool
* Repeat the training process and iterate


## Data

We use MNIST to illustrate the workflow but only use the 10k testing dataset as
our entire dataset. We first set aside 2,000 datapoints for testing. Out of the
remaining 8,000 datapoints, we allow user to select 100, 500 or 1,000 are labeled 
examples while the rest are unlabeled. The user can then provide labels to 10 
shortlisted examples (based on selection strategy) from the remaining training examples.

## How to use

There are two ways to start the application.

### As a normal python session

Just type 
  ```python
  python app_new.py
  ```

### Within CDSW

This can be set up as an application.

- First, specify the port in app_new.py. 

  ```python
  app.run_server(port=os.getenv("CDSW_APP_PORT"))
  ```

- Second, set the Subdomain in CDSW's Applications tab.

- Third, enter app.py in the Script field in CDSW's Applications tab.

- Fourth, start the application within CDSW.

- Finally, access demo at Subdomain.ffl-4.cdsw.eng.cloudera.com

### To Do
- Why the train error > validation error - done, fixed
- Add refresh graphs button instead of flickering? - fixed
- What's wrong with the epoch updates now? - fixed
- Reset button click should restore the graphs as well - fixed
- Review that AL is adding value to the process - done
  Yes, it does. For instance, say we have 100 examples and train a model for 60 epochs
  with random strategy, the val accuracy is then 78%. If we use entropy strategy we 
  get around 83% by the end of 70 epochs. Although close this should ideally get better 
  with more epochs .
- The "label this image" option should disappear after training either point to a different image
  or just have "click a data point ..." message shown
